Course Overview
Clustering
Hierarchical and Density Based Clustering
Gaussian Mixture Models and Cluster Validation
Dimensionality Reduction and PCA
Random Projection and ICA
Lesson Overview
In the previous lesson, you've learned the K-means, which is useful when:

The number of clusters is known
Clusters are circular or spherical, or hyper-spherical
However, this also makes K-means very limited because it relies on the distance to the centroids to cluster data. This is particularly true when datasets have an irregular distribution, such as:

Random Distribution
Two Cresent Dataset
Two Rings Dataset
In this lesson, you will work with an array of dataset distributions to learn more advanced clustering techniques.

In this lesson, we will first talk about hierarchical clustering, which provides us a visual of how clusters relate to each other. Then we will discuss density based clustering, which clusters data based on the density of data.

Topics covered in the lessons are:

Hierarchical clustering
Single-link clustering
Complete-link
Average-link
Ward's method
Hierarchical clustering implementation
Density based clustering (DBSCAN)
DBSCAN implementation

-----

Lesson Recap
We just covered a bunch of information! Here is a quick recap!

I. Hierarchical Clustering
You learned about different methods in hierarchical clustering. We looked at four methods:

Single-link: merge clusters based on the nearest points within the clusters.
Complete-link: merge clusters based on the farthest points within the clusters.
Average-link: merge clusters based on the average distance between all points within the clusters.
Ward's method: merge clusters that minimize the variance
II. Density-based Clustering
We saw the density-based spatial clustering in application with noise (DBSCAN).

DBSCAN clusters data based on the density.
DBSCAN is able to handle noise and outliers.
DBSCAN needs a search distance \epsilonϵ to define the search area, and a minimum number of points in a neighborhood to determine the core points
DBSCAN does not require the number of clusters to be predefined.